Let us see how to declare and initialize 2D array and also how to display the elements how to access
the elements.
Usually I'm taking a data type as int only but you can take any data type int will be easy
for explanation purpose so I'm taking int A, name of a two dimensional array and I will take the size as
two rows three columns.
Here a arrays is created.
Now this not having any elements just a array with garbage value.
Suppose I want to initialize it.
Then the method for initializing it, i can initialize is in row wise, first row is 2 4 6
And second row as a three five seven.
So in this way I can initialize two rows one by one.
This is one method  or else even you can initialize a like this also, 2 rows,  three columns.
I want to set the same values so 2 4 6 3 5 7.
So there's another way you don't have to give the brackets automatically it will fill all the elements
one by one.
I'm getting a warning here that the arrays are not in use A and B C are not in use.
It's not an error it's just a warning.
Now I want to display the elements of array.
I will remove this or a B.
I want to display the elements of array A.
So for that I have to use nested for loop and first outer for loop is for row
So I start from zero and I is less than 2 I plus plus So there will be two rows that is 0 and 1.
Then ainner for loop is for number of columns and those columns are starting from zero and j is less than
three because the number of columns are three.
Now here I will see cout of i & j.
And after every element I will give some space so that this is how i can access all the elements so I & j will be taking
the values from 0 0 to 1,3 as already we have seen how nested for loop works.
Let me run this program and show you what output I get ya.
2 4 6 3 5 7.
So both the rows are coming in a single line after the first for loop.
If I say cout endl, then after the first row it will give a new line
Ya here is output that is 2 4 6 and 3 5 7.
So I'm getting a proper output.
If I remove these brackets also it's the same thing I would get the same array
yeah two four 6 and 3 5 7.
What happens if I don't initialize all the element if I initialize just four elements.
So it's just 2 4 6 3 and the remaining elements are automatically zero.
I will add those elements.
Now let us look at the other way of accessing a two dimensional array using for each loop.
Let us see how we can access it using for each loop here for for each loop I'm writing auto
As I said if you don't want to involve the datatypes and everything then you can say auto.
X a.
Then for each auto reference of y and that is on x
yes.
Here you can see that this A is a two dimensional array so foar that I am taking x.
This will become row.
This will be for row that is first row is two four six next row is three five seven.
And this has to be taken as type reference.
If I don't take it as a reference it's a error.
So you can see that it is a given error.
So for using for each loop I must use reference.
Let's remove this and say int and see what happens.
It's an error if I make it it of type int
then also it's an error.
So instead of this if I give auto then automatically it will take the x variable off type rows of
a and y variable of type columns of X means the elements of x, this y will take the values from X.
Now cout I'm getting the final elements in y right.
I will display y and also I'll give some space let us run this and see
yeah I'm getting all the elements here.
They did not give cout so I missed that so I  will write down cout endl.
Let us run the program and see what happens.
I'm getting all the elements.
So I got the two lines of output.
That is one line for each and all.
Now let us see how I can read the values in this two dimensional array using cin.
So what I do is I will copied this loop this is for displaying.
And paste it this will be displaying all the elements.
So this is for displaying.
Now the first nested for loops instead of displaying I will use it for Cin y as y is taking
each and every element ain an array.
So X is for rows and y is for every element.
So I will not initialize this one.
I will leave it empty.
Not initialize.
So let us see whether it will access read all the elements in an array or
Not from the keyboard.
And after that I'm also displaying so I should get back the same elements.
Let us run this, ya
here.
There is no prompt.
I did not give any Message.
So let me just type the values 2 3 4.
This is first row 5 7 9.
Second row and i got the same elements 2 3 4 5 7 9.
So yes even using cin I can read all the elements in a two dimensional array with the help of for
each loop.
So this is the complete code.
Now first two nested for each loop are used for reading all the elements in a two dimensional array
and next two for loops are used for displaying all the elements of two dimensional array.
So that's it.
We have seen how to declare and initialize a two dimensional.
And also you have seen how to access the elements in the next video will see how to perform matrix operations
like addition and subtraction of matrixes.